# Overview and Purpose

GitHub is a wonderful ecosystem with many extensions to make certain
workflows easier. However, if you're in the 1% that host a "sensitive"
repository on GitHub, you may want to follow the suggestions below.

The permissions model on GitHub for older OAuth
authenticated apps is quite broad -- what you enable for one project
applies to all projects you (the user) have access to.

This can expose repositories with sensitive information to risks,
without the repository admins being aware of risks. The following
guidelines should be applied to all sensitive repositories hosted on
GitHub.

Sensitive repositories include (but are not limited to):

-   Repositories containing code that is directly or indirectly part of
    the Firefox product delivered by Mozilla.
-   Repositories containing code that is run in production as part of
    services supporting the build, release, or ongoing operations of
    Firefox.
-   Repositories containing PII or 3rd party IP which Mozilla has a
    contractual obligation to protect.

The purpose of this checklist is to provide a base level of protection
against compromise of credentials that may have the ability to modify
repository resources (code, wikis, issues, etc.). Those credentials
could belong either to an individual, or given to GitHub extensions.

## Terminology

As used in this document, the following terms have specific meanings.

Elevated Permissions:

:   Any permission not available to a logged in GitHub member. For
    public repositories, this is "push" access (which includes the
    ability to assign issues). For private repositories, it also
    includes the ability to read the repository.

Production Branch:

:   Any branch that generates a release that is supported in some way.

Release:

:   Any distribution of the code, or artifacts generated from the code,
    for external use. "Release" includes deployments to staging or
    production hardware, "code drops" into another project, and
    similar milestones.

# Guidelines

The guidelines below are strongly encouraged, and may be required by
some groups. If you have reasons for not adopting individual ones,
please document that for future reference.

Not all of the guidelines can be verified independently. Some of them
require a user to "self report".

## Membership

### Initial Setup

-   [ ] All GitHub accounts granted specific access to a sensitive
    repository need to have a current email contact address recorded in
    a Mozilla system. (GitHub does not provide this feature.) For staff,
    that should be done in the "Github Username" field of their
    people.m.o record, for others GitHub should be added as a "Profile
    Identity" in their Mozillians record, and their login added to the
    "Bio" section". ([see below](#mozillians))
-   [ ] All GitHub accounts must use 2FA
-   [ ] All GitHub accounts with elevated permissions must have phone
    numbers removed. (This protects against 2FA bypass using SMS reset.)

### Ongoing Operations

-   [ ] Any member given elevated permissions to a repository should
    be told that it is their responsibility to contact organization
    owners and repository admins if they ever suspect or know that any
    of their GitHub credentials have been leaked or compromised. (This
    includes any Personal Access Tokens generated by the user.)

## Repository

### Initial Setup

-   [ ] Sensitive repositories should only be hosted in a GitHub
    organization operated by Mozilla staff.
-   [ ] The hosting organization should have 2FA set as a requirement.
-   [ ] The branching structure of the repository should be
    documented.
-   [ ] Committing (or merging) to a production branch should be
    limited to the smallest reasonable set of people.
-   [ ] Branch protection should be enabled for production branches
        [Branch Protection Help][]
-   [ ] Branch protections should always apply to administrators as
    well.
        [Branch Protection Help][]
-   [ ] Commits (including merges) to the production branch should be
    GPG signed.
        [GPG Signing][]
-   [ ] Important milestones, such as releases, should be marked by a
    signed tag.
        [GPG Signing][]
-   [ ] Important milestone achievement criteria should include an audit
    all relevant verified commits.
-   [ ] Elevated permissions should be granted to teams, not
    individual accounts, whenever possible. (Only org members can be
    part of a team.)
-   [ ] Sensitive repositories should be monitored for vulnerabilities
    in their supply chain. Private repositories should opt in to this
    monitoring.
-   [ ] Automatic PRs to remediate vulnerable packages should be enabled
    whenever available.

### Ongoing Operations

-   [ ] A developer should be designated to triage all reported supply
    chain vulnerabilities.
-   [ ] When appropriate, vulnerabilities which do not apply to the
    usage in that repository should be resolved with the reason
    documented.
-   [ ] Project release criteria should include verifying no outstanding
    vulnerabilities are unresolved. At a minimum, we recommend this
    applies to those assigned "critical" or "high" severity.

# Implementation

Implementing all of these recommendations can be a major task for
existing projects. Following are recommendations for an implementation
order.

## Initial

The top 3 recommendations should be implemented first:

1.  Use of 2fa by everyone associated with the sensitive repository.
2.  Implementing signed commits and tags into your workflows.
3.  Hosting in a Mozilla staff managed organization.

The other recommendations should follow as soon as practical.

## Ongoing

-   [ ] Review repository and organization settings.

    Many of the guidelines require the cooperation of individuals to
    implement. At the moment, there is no automated way to assess the
    degree of implementation. Until such automation is in place, manual
    checking should be done on a regular basis. Once a quarter is
    recommended.

-   [ ] Review Guidance for changes.

    The guidance should be reviewed for applicability to each sensitive
    repository on a regular basis. The recommendation is to do this on
    any significant change, or once a year.

# References

- [Threat Model](threat.md) gives more details on how a hijacked 3rd
  party app might be able to gain additional user permissions.

- [Attack Sequence](graph.md)

- <span id="mozillians">Support for GitHub login names.</span>

  Currently, it is not possible to enter a GitHub login in a manner that
  is programatically retrievable. Bugs are on file to remedy this, but
  the feature has not yet been deployed.

- GitHub documentation of interest:
    - [Commit Restrictions][]
    - [Branch Protection Help][]
    - [GPG Signing][] for commits and tags



[Branch Protection Help]: https://help.github.com/articles/configuring-protected-branches/
[GPG Signing]: https://help.github.com/articles/about-required-commit-signing
[Commit Restrictions]: https://help.github.com/articles/about-branch-restrictions/
